they can be carefree but I have to work
all day she doesn't have to worry about
money but I have to worry about money
she looks fabulous all the time and I
have to work at it often times we are
resentful about the things that other
people have that we want that somewhere
in your mind you're telling yourself
it's not okay to want in this video
we're going to talk about three ways to
stop being resentful my name is Joe
Hudson I'm a former venture capitalist
and now I'm a coach to some of the most
notable names in Silicon Valley before I
go into the three ways if you're
watching this video it means that
there's something in you that knows that
you're resentful from time to time and
that you don't want to be and it makes a
lot of sense that you don't want to be
resentful because when you are resentful
it's a disempowering feeling it makes
you feel like you're not actually in
control of your own life resentment
builds it destroys relationships but
most importantly it destroys the
relationship you have with yourself
because it tells yourself that hey I
can't have what I want the most most I
can do is just resent the other person
for having what they have or doing what
they want to do so now let's get into
the three ways that you can stop being
resentful so often times resentment is
built because there's anger that's
unexpressed now anger has an incredibly
bad reputation in our society because a
lot of people use anger as a way of
controlling other people but before
anger is a way of controlling other
people it is a sign of care we do not
get angry over anything that we don't
care about right like you wouldn't get
angry if somebody came up to you and
said hey the sky is pink and it was blue
you'd be like oh like whatever I don't
care it wouldn't make you all upset but
if somebody came to you and said yeah
your daughter is a blah blah blah or
your your husband is you you care about
that and so you're going to get angry so
there's no place where you get angry
where there isn't some care the other
thing about anger when you sense it is
that it's telling you that there's a
boundary that you need to draw it's
telling you that there's something that
doesn't work for you that you don't want
to be living with anymore and so drawing
that boundary is an incredibly important
thing so resentment is a sign of that
anger which is a sign of a boundary as
an example maybe every day your husband
comes home or your wife comes home and
they just complain about their day and
you want to come home and just have like
20 minutes of Peace before they start
complaining about their day and so
you're resentful that they just keep on
coming in and not paying attention to
what you want it's a great time for a
boundary where you can just say hey
sweetheart I need 20 minutes to relax
before I hear about your day it's just
that simple we have a great podcast on
boundaries that talks about all the ways
to do them and if you want to listen to
it it's an easy podcast to find it's
called Art of accomplishment so drawing
boundaries is one of the best ways to
stop feeling resentful and the second is
to ask for what you want so often times
we are resentful about about the things
that other people have that we want that
somewhere in your mind you're telling
yourself it's not okay to want it's not
okay to want it but you do want it so it
doesn't really matter if it's okay or
not okay it's just simply about learning
to ask for the thing that you want and
allowing yourself to have the things
that you want this doesn't mean that
you're going to get everything that you
want in fact it's not really important
if you get everything that you want
what's important is that you've learned
to ask for what you want because the
asking is what tells you that it's okay
to want it and then the resentment goes
away it's when you're not okay to want
something that you actually want that's
where the resentment can breed that's
where the resentment builds so a great
story about this is that my daughter had
a dear friend and the dear friend's
father had a heart attack and my
daughter out of the care of her heart
because she wanted to started to really
help the daughter of the man who had a
heart attack and so she was there every
evening helping her out they were both
teenagers and she was helping her out
being there for and one day she came
home and I saw the resentment I saw that
she started getting tired of doing it
and she felt horrible about it because
what she wanted was to not take care of
her and so I said hey babe what do you
want she goes I want a break for a while
I said hey great I want you to have a
break for a while and I bet your friend
wants you to have a break too so she
called up her friend she said hey I want
a break for a while and her friend's
like great I want you to have a break
for a while she had a break I think it
was like 2 three days and boom she was
back at it helping out her friend whose
father had had a heart attack it's just
as simple as asking for what you want so
the third way of letting go of your
resentment is a strange one it is admire
what you crave in others so this one is
kind of a head turner so often times We
crave something that somebody else has
and since they have it we're resentful
this kind of resentment often happens in
marriages and so maybe one person is
like hey I really resent the fact that
you get to work all the time and feel
powerful and the other person says oh I
resent the fact that you get to be home
all the time and really show care in
your work and you don't have to be all
hard and strong and that just breathes
this resentment back and forth in a
marriage instead an easy fix is to say
hey I really admire how you go out into
the world every day and make things
happen for us and the other person
saying hey I really admire how much you
get to be home and just nurture and take
care of everything for the family
because what's actually happening there
is it's not that you don't want them to
have it it's that you want to have it
and when you admire something in
somebody you're giving yourself
permission to have it but you're also
satisfying that itch in you it's not a
direct satisfaction but there's this
great satisfaction where you just go oh
so try it out for a second really take
something that you resent somebody for
having and then just see the admiration
experience the admiration cuz if you
resent it you admire it and then just
feel the admiration and see what it does
to your
resentment it just makes it fade away it
also makes it much more likely that you
get to have the thing that you admire
because when you admire something it's
an invitation whereas if you resent it
it is a rejection of the thing itself
emotionally you are rejecting the thing
so recently I was in this little private
conference and it was full of people in
a business that was similar to mine
and the person who organized it just was
so generous with his admiration every
single person that he interacted with
you just saw him openly admire things in
the other people and because of that
they all
shared those gifts they all taught him
how to do it and his business was
growing because of it but not only that
he had all these people in a room
together all helping each other all
because of his admiration and I realized
to myself at that moment like I'm a
little stingy with my admiration what
does it feel like to actually be really
generous with my admiration and when I
started being generous with my
admiration all of a sudden other folks
started opening up and they started
handing me their gifts they were like oh
you admire this let me share with you
how that happened how that was created
and then I could learn from that and I
could get that and it was such a mind
blow for me that it was as simple as
just being generous with your admiration
all right if you like the video please
hit subscribe if you want us to talk
about something in a future video please
write it in the comments and otherwise
feel free to watch the next video
[Music]